able to have party people welcome back
to another guitar lesson well I'll teach
you some brace some bass complaints guys
we're gonna be learning planet Caravan
by a Pantera I think the Pantera
versions way better than the oddly
version I just think Phil's voice fits
better than Ozzy's I love both bands but
I think this version is pretty badass
Ozzy is cool
Pantera score much respect to a dime bag
smiling down on the middle community
that fools a beast rats Brown it's a
badass bass player that's why I'm
playing with the pick tonight and
teaching you this riff it's a very
similar if that this whole riff goes is
one simple riff that goes through the
song repeatedly so we're gonna break it
down and I'm gonna teach it for you
suckers ready get set go wait a minute
that's not the riff right on buddy okay
the rest of this played in standard
tuning and you're gonna every note
that's played on the a string
you're gonna ring out so you're going to
be playing the sixth fret of the
a-string let it ring and then go to the
D string play the sixth and hammer down
to the eighth fret to
and I'm getting some text messages if
you guys in here and you're going to
hammer down on the 6th to the 8th on the
g-strings they're going slowly and then
you're going to go to the a string and
play the 4th fret and then they're bring
out and then go to the D string play
this 6/8 and 6th fret so slowly you're
getting just hold up this up to speed
you're getting so after you get to the
8th the a string 4th fret you're gonna
go to the D string those pigs and sticks
but you're hammering for the 6th to the
8th to turn it on you can hammer on pull
off and you're using your ring finger
for this to get to the 8th or 9th fret
so you're getting this result
bus mentioned to you guys is this is a
very very bluesy song and it has a lot
of feel and you've got to play the song
a lot of field or the songs not gonna
sound 100% right but this song as I
mentioned every note on the a string the
sixth or the fourth fret the sixth fret
and the ninth would all have to ring out
continuously to make the riff sound
great and that's pretty much the bass
lesson for today I know it's a short one
and I wanted to bring it to you guys the
Pantera version I honestly think is this
a little more more emotional than the
Aussie version but if you haven't heard
either version I highly recommend look
them up on YouTube Black Sabbath planet
Caravan or the Dimebag Darrell Pantera
version and you can make your mind up
which one you guys like but it's like a
lot of these older school songs only
have we have a few notes do the song and
I always want to say that to a lot of
song guys a lot of really same the songs
are not the most technical songs third s
really catchy because they have really
good groove and whatnot so in the
comments below let me know if you like
the song
if this lesson helped out and that said
great even if they hate comment
subscribe
okay with my toe knock off during this
lesson just because it gives it more of
a dynamic sound in this plan on which I
say with it all the way on
you can always experiment with that
yourself and I'll see you guys in the
next lesson let me know what videos
lessons and songs you want next and
every week if you guys post in the
comments below what songs you want I'll
try to bust them out later guys
and highly recommend playing the song
with the pic because Rex Brown the bass
player of Pantera played with the up it
so that's why I was doing it later